# react-preview

> A command-line tool for generating previews of React components in a React project.

## Purpose

This tool is intended to help develop a particular React component without needing to manually modify existing React files.

This was inspired by the SwiftUI preview tool available in XCode for previewing SwiftUI components.

## Notes

This is currently only supported and tested on React projects created via `create-react-app` and TypeScript. This is still a work in progress with many details missing.

## How it works

`react-preview` takes a preview file and creates a `index.tsx` file according to the specifications of the preview file. This file overwrites the current React project's `src/index.tsx` file. The original content of that file is saved inside a `preview/temp` directory under the filename `<time>.tsx`, where `<time> == Date.now()` at the time `react-preview` was executed.

With the `index.tsx` file written, `react-preview` runs `npm run start`, which if auto-generated by `create-react-app`, will cause `react-scripts` to be run and launch the React app. When the React project is stopped by hitting Ctrl+C, or some other process that interrupts it, the original content of `index.tsx` is written back.

## Local Setup

Clone or download the repository. Open the project directory in a terminal and execute the following command:
```sh
# If you have yarn (preferred)
yarn run setup

# If you have npm only,
npm run setup-npm
```
After running the above command with no errors, you will be able to use the `react-preview` in any directory. 

## Usage

Begin by opening a React project. Create a preview environment by running `react-preview init`. This will create a `preview` directory, used hold data for `react-preview`, e.g. file contents.

### Basic Usage

Create a `preview.yaml` file in the directory that contains a React component file. The `preview.yaml`
 file instructs `react-preview` how to load a preview of the component. The following shows a typical file setup where
`react-preview` may be used:

```tsx
// src/Components/MyComponent.tsx
export default function MyComponent() {
    return <div>
        <h1>Hello World</h1>
    </div>
}
```
```yaml
# src/Components/preview.yaml
source: MyComponent.tsx
```

In the `preview.yaml` file, the value of the `source` key is the React component file to preview. The value may be an absolute path or a relative path to that file.

With this setup prepared, we can start the preview by running `react-preview run <path to preview.yaml file>`, which will set up the preview mode for that component.
Alternatively, you could also start the preview by using just the directory path that contains the `preview.yaml` file; `react-preview` would simply look for `preview.yaml` file inside that directory.

### Props

`react-preview` supports creating props by using the `props` field in the `preview.yaml` file. Suppose we had a React component that uses props, then it can be previewed via the following set of files.

```tsx
// src/Components/MessageBox.tsx
export default function MessageBox(props: {
    message: string;
}) {
    return <div>
        <h1>{props.message}</h1>
    </div>
}
```
```yaml
# src/Components/preview.yaml
source: MessageBox.tsx

props:
  message: Hello World
```

The preview props supports the standard values supported by YAML, e.g. strings, integers, floats, booleans, arrays, null, and objects.
The preview prop also supports functions by declaring an object with `type: function` in the `preview.yaml` file. For a practical example, consider the following file set up:

```tsx
// src/Components/ActionButton.tsx
export default function ActionButton(props: {
    action(): void;
}) {
    return <div onClick={props.action}>
        This is a clickable region.
    </div>
}
```
```yaml
# src/Components/preview.yaml
source: ActionButton.tsx

props:
  action:
    type: function
    value: "() => alert('You clicked me!')"
```

Another way to represent functions is to use the `specs` field instead of `value`. With `specs`, you can define a function in terms of its function arguments, return values, and function body in between. Then, the function value can be alternatively declared as the following:

```yaml
# src/Components/preview.yaml
source: ActionButton.tsx

props:
  action:
    type: function
    specs:
      body: "alert('You clicked me!')"
```

## Re-compilation

While the preview is running, you can make changes to the preview file. Changing the preview file will make `react-preview` attempt to update the changes accordingly.

## License

MIT © [Anthony Yang]()
